@document.meta
title: 12
description: 
authors: r17
categories: [
  discord, 
  javascript
]
created: 2024-08-12T10:35:29+0700
updated: 2024-08-12T11:11:14+0700
version: 1.1.1
@end

* _*How to Delete Discord Messages:*_
** *Open Discord in Your Browser*
   - Launch Discord in your web browser.

** *Navigate to the Channel or Direct Message (DM)*
   - Go to the channel or DM where the messages you want to delete are located.

** *Open Developer Tools*
   - Right-click on the page and select "Inspect" or press `Ctrl+Shift+I` (or `Cmd+Option+I` on Mac) to open the developer tools.

** *Delete a Message Manually*
   - Click the trash icon next to the message you want to delete.

** *Capture the Request Using Developer Tools*
   - In the developer tools, go to the "Network" tab.
   - Delete a message manually as mentioned above.
   - In the "Network" tab, find the network request associated with the delete action.
   - Right-click on the request and select "Copy as fetch".

** *Define the JavaScript Function to Delete Messages*
   - Use the copied "fetch" options to create a JavaScript function for deleting messages.

    @code javascript
    const deleteMsg = ({channelId, id}) => fetch(`https://discord.com/api/v9/channels/${channelId}/messages/${id}`, {
      // Paste the OPTIONS from your "Copy as fetch" request here
      method: 'DELETE'
    })
    @end

** *Set Up a Function to List Messages*
   - Create a function to list messages in the channel or DM.

    @code javascript
    const listMessages = ({channelId}) => fetch(`https://discord.com/api/v9/channels/${channelId}/messages`, {
      // Paste the OPTIONS from your "Copy as fetch" request here
      method: 'GET'
    })
    @end

** *Filter Messages by Username*
   - Use a filter function to select only the messages sent by a specific user.

    @code javascript
    const filterByMe = (username, messages) => messages.filter(message => message.author.username === username)
    @end

** *Run the Deletion Script*
   - Use a loop to delete messages in batches. The script will run every 3 seconds, deleting one message at a time, and will stop when no more messages are found.

    @code javascript
    function run(messages) {
      setTimeout(function() { 
        const [firstMessage, ...remainingMessages] = messages;
        console.log(`Deleting message with ID: ${firstMessage.id}`);
        deleteMsg({id: firstMessage.id, channelId: "YOUR CHANNEL ID"}); 
        if (remainingMessages.length > 0) {
          run(remainingMessages);
        } else {
          listMessages({id: firstMessage.id, channelId: "YOUR CHANNEL ID"})
            .then(response => response.json())
            .then(allMessages => filterByMe("username", allMessages))
            .then(run);
        }
      }, 3000);
    }
    @end

** *Final Notes:*
   - Make sure you replace `"username"` with your actual Discord username in the `filterByMe` function.
   - Be cautious when using this script, as it will delete messages permanently.
